this is what you think women's roller
derby is think again people seem to
think it's like WWF we're like wrestling
like it's all fake and so I've been a
target that one's like Oh your duel in
derby so you guys like beat each other
up and no we don't beat each other up
there is a game behind it there are
strategies behind it there's a lot of
exercise and work put into it so nothing
is fake it's all real Isabel ringer
started playing roller derby in her 20s
now she's general manager of the San
Diego Derby dolls where a roller derby
organization we've been around for about
eight years in San Diego we play women's
bank track roller derby we are very
actively trying to make the sport a
professional sport there are tons of
people who I think still don't perceive
roller derby as a sport at this time
we're always working on sort of breaking
some of those stigmas and
generalizations and kind of changing
what that public perception is of the
women who play roller derby not only are
they athletes but there are also smart
business women who have a website a
YouTube channel and their own training
and event venue I'm Bonnie destroyer and
welcome to the beautiful dollhouse and
an undisclosed location downtown San
Diego and we're training for a game that
we have coming up this weekend against a
team from Arizona the dollhouse is our
full-featured training facility we rent
this place out ourselves and we hold
fitness classes for the public and then
privately we have our own training
sessions
and we have scrimmages honey destroyer
started the Derby dolls in 2005 starting
the league was an amazing experience
it's by far the best decision I ever
made in my life before roller derby I
always felt a little bit like an artist
without an art like I have always felt
like a creative person and like I was
willing to give myself to a cause but I
just never really had one and roller
derby gave me a sense of community and
healthy outlet for all of the aggression
that I tend to have you can't tell now
but that's because I use it all at
playing roller derby you know I came out
at 26 this kind of raw you know this
rough rock and through friction and you
know conflict in all this you get all
polished up I don't think anyone joins
roller derby because they're like hey I
really want to improve myself but that
sort of becomes a byproduct of being a
part of an organization like this where
it's owned by women it's run by women
and it's a full contact sport I mean
there's really nothing out there that's
like what we're doing which is why
Circle Circle dot decided to create a
play inspired by the San Diego Derby
dolls and their unique entrepreneurial
style that's like a mondo KPBS news